those are all the pills you take in one
day 111 because that's where the data
led me this is how you don't die Brian
Johnson the man who spends two million
dollars a year to slow down as age he's
managed to reverse his biological age
already to an 18 year old projected to
live to 200.
the only objective we have is don't die
I've opted into an algorithm that takes
better care of me than I can myself it
sounds overwhelming in the beginning but
trust me on this so my bedtime is at 8
30. and you had a hundred percent sleep
four months straight now what about
hanky-panky not after 8 30. alcohol
three ounces every morning with
breakfast for breakfast for breakfast my
last meal of the day is at 11AM and
every calorie has to fight for its life
you are very kind in bringing me some
food presumably this is what you eat
that's right if you ask the body what do
you want to eat to be an ideal Health
this is the answer for the legit rude
that is a mushroom covered in chocolate
how fun
why is Brian doing this I was thinking
about what your father went through and
I was wondering if there's some kind of
Link there it was always on my mind I
mean he's in pain and he's stuck and he
can't overcome this terrible thing
that's ruining his life
foreign
I am
you're very very clearly Mission driven
the ultimate question becomes are you
happy
um
before this episode starts I have a
small favor to ask from you two months
ago 74 of people that watch this channel
didn't subscribe we're now down to 69 my
goal is 50 so if you've ever liked any
of the videos we've posted if you like
this channel can you do me a quick favor
and hit the Subscribe button it helps
this channel more than you know and the
bigger the channel gets as you've seen
the bigger the guests get thank you and
enjoy this episode
[Music]
Prime
what mission are you on and why does
that mission matter to you but also to
everybody else listening to this right
now
my mission
is for the human race to survive
and Thrive and it's figuring out what we
do
that creates the highest probability of
that being possible
and why specifically have you taken on
that mission versus any other Mission
you could have committed your life and
time to why you
hmm
and I want the long answer to this yeah
because all the context going right back
to the beginning I had this
transformative experience when I was 19
years old I went to Ecuador and I was a
missionary and I lived among extreme
poverty dirt floors mud huts
people not knowing how they're going to
make ends meet day-to-day and I came
back to the United States and my family
was poor growing up but it was opulent
compared to Ecuador I couldn't believe
that I had lived in a bubble my entire
life unaware of circumstances of other
realities like where I was at in Ecuador
and I was facing decisions in college
what to study what to become who I was
going to be you start creating these
identities
all I could identify was this fire that
had lit within me that I wanted to spend
my life trying to improving the human
race at a global scale I don't know
where it came from but it just coming
back from Ecuador it seemed like that
was what I want to spend my life on I
didn't know what to do I was 21 years
old I didn't have any ideas and so I
thought I would become an entrepreneur
make a whole bunch of money by the age
of 30 and then with that money try to
figure out a plan to do it and so lucky
me I sold Braintree venmo at 34 I made a
few hundred million dollars it sold for
800 million dollars right
and then I set my mind to this question
of what one thing in existence
could I do that would be relevant in the
25th Century I grew up on biographies
and so I'm accustomed to thinking about
things on centuries time scale
so doing things that not the matter in
the news cycle tomorrow but the
intelligence in the 21st century would
say you know what we appreciate what
happened in the early 21st century
take me a couple of years further
backwards in the the timeline I want to
understand
before the age of 16 how would you
describe the personality of that young
man if I if you walked in here now and
you sat down how would you like
characterize that young man
friendly and fun so I think that the
event that activities maybe that defines
me the best is I was in
seventh grade going into eighth grade
and there was the kid started breaking
out into different groups of identities
donors jocks you know nerds and it
saddened me because I wanted to be
friends with everybody and people
started creating these groups and there
was this conflict between which groups
can hang out with which groups and so I
made a map of the social structure of
the entire School of what people were
what groups and then where they're at
within that group so were they the the
alpha in the group and then you had the
second tiers and third tiers and then I
systematically went about and I became
friends with everyone in the entire
school every single group and it didn't
matter who you were
I was friends with you and so I really
enjoyed connecting with people I enjoyed
the friendships I enjoyed the
interactions I enjoyed different people
for different reasons and uh
I guess that's kind of stuck with me
where I the idea of group structure and
hindering it's same with ideas like if
you're in a certain idea and you can't
Bridge another idea
the outcome wasn't the most telling part
of that story the most telling part of
the story was the process the process if
you made a physical like a physical
diagram in the school you didn't just do
it in your head you went home as how a
16 year old or something yeah uh yeah so
I was um
like 13 12 or 13. yeah you must be able
to say objectively that that's unusual
behavior for a 12 year old to be that
analytical about problem solving uh for
12 year old that's not what I was doing
when I was doing plastic ball against
the fence and you're dissecting the
social structure of the school and then
manipulating it to make friends with
everybody yeah that's how information
presents itself like when I meet
somebody uh like in the movie A
Beautiful Mind with John Nash who did uh
equilibrium uh Nash equilibrium uh
there's a scene where you go into his
garage and he has this big wall and has
like pictures and then it has pins and
it has threads everything connected it's
like this mad man's wall that's how my
my mind understands information is when
I meet somebody or or look at a given
problem I instantaneously go to creating
a map of all information uh like one of
the center pieces what's connecting to
what how is it structured what's the
dimensions of it and so even if I meet
someone new and they tell me a story
like you know I was at the coffee shop
and you're like what details do they
include in this conversation what is
their the person they're telling me
about what about the reaction for the
people what elements do they identify
and that then enables me to create this
structure of their mind and how they
package the information and so yeah my
mind just naturally uh hangs on to every
single word and creates a scaffolding of
how the person understands reality
that sounds exhausting to someone whose
mind does not work in that way
it's exhilarating
so 19 years old you go from this this
Mormon mission to Ecuador this
ultimately culminates in a question
challenging your faith
um happened to me the same age in fact I
was very religious when I was younger
and then 80 19 years old that's all
starts to fall apart what was your
process like
uh it was torture
and I think I'm not sure what religion
you are in Christianity or whatever yeah
yeah okay yeah this was not a whatever
thing for me
when you're a raised Mormon it is your
singular reality and identity of
existence it's not like you're casually
involved it's everything you are as a
human and so
when you are like when you're born into
it and then force fed that
and your entire Community is built upon
that it creates structures in your mind
that you're not even aware of and so as
I began breaking from it I would
rationally be able to walk to the
conclusions say logically I don't
understand the situation but then
emotionally the brain was like hold
tight you know like we feel the
following things we can't quite
structure in a logical format and it
creates this bizarre conundrum in the
brain and so I had that difficulty then
that got caught up in my depression
where in my early 20s I my brain I got
into chronic depression where the brain
was like life is awful you know
everything is hopeless life is not worth
living you should kill yourself and so
in that moment I learned that I could
observe my brain dropping these thoughts
on me and that I wasn't my thoughts
like Depression was The Depression was
speaking
but it wasn't me
and when I learned that I thought wait a
second if I am an observing depression
and action here
what can I trust for my brain in the
first place so when a thought drops in
my my awareness
where did that come from and could I
trust it under what circumstances and
then I realized if my brain is doing
this to me other brains are doing this
other people
how can I trust their brains and so it's
just like this Authority collapse where
in religion all the people who I had
trusted to tell me
to give me
wise advice about life that fell apart
my brain fell apart other people's
brains fell apart and I began arriving
to this observation who in reality can I
trust no matter what circumstances
and that really started that kickstarted
the process of me trying to reconstruct
my reality in a way that I felt was
stable
versus like ping-ponging around to like
just wild emotion and this random
thought from my brain how long did your
Depression last and when did it start uh
age 24 I remember I was in the a parking
lot one day with my brother we were
working on a startup and something just
broke in my brain I remember telling him
like Hey something just happened I feel
it it's weird and he was like just power
through it I'm like okay but I I
physically felt something happened one
day and then I just got in this funk for
10 years and I couldn't get out of it 10
years
and what did that funk look like
practically day to day or week by week
it was uh
they're like all these different layers
of problems so I I was married we had uh
we had our first baby at the age of 25
so I've got a baby at home I'm not
sleeping we're taking care of the first
one then I'm building startups on top of
that and then we're also working my way
out of Mormonism but then that's a
conflict because my wife is you know
also Mormonism and the kid like the
communities around us and all my entire
world is this community and so then we
don't have any money to pay our bills
I'm in a startup I'm trying to figure
out how to deal with the religion thing
trying to keep my marriage together it
just creates this
disaster of a circumstance where I just
I'm paralyzed and stuck in the
depression in the relationship in the
religion not sleeping depressed trying
to survive in the startup world and it
was that was kind of my state for about
10 years trying to navigate all those
competing complexities when you look
back and try you diagnose the factors
that cause that depression is it that
that pressure from all different sides
that you think caused the depression I
do and so during that 10 years I I
pursued solving my depression with equal
rigor as I have anything else I tried
everything known to humans to solve
depression nothing worked the thing that
worked is my relationship ended and I
left the Mormon church
and it just left it and that was the
most remarkable experience of my life I
just thought it was like this permanent
State I couldn't exit but those two
modifications
just lifted the cloud and what did that
teach you about the nature of your
depression
uh
I was paralyzed
and those decisions felt Unthinkable to
me even though I could logically
conclude this religion was not something
I was going to follow and the
relationship wasn't working out the idea
of becoming a divorced father
and being in that circumstance the idea
of leaving my entire community of going
out and sticking out a new existential
reality it paralyzed me and I couldn't
get over the idea that it would be
better on the other side
and once I once I got myself there that
it's actually better for the kids that
was the key thing for me is
there was one experience I was in turkey
with some friends late at night
and it snapped in my brain the kids are
better off with these decisions and
that's all I needed and then the next
day I put everything into motion
and why did that matter to you so much
do you think
I suppose that uh for whatever reason I
have been an intensely devoted father
like I care deeply about being there for
my children for whatever reason yeah I
mean I don't know why you know like it's
just it's maybe it's part of my identity
maybe I'm trying to compensate for
something I don't know but I I invested
very very heavily into my children and
the idea of being a divorced father
you know with like some kind of split
custody situation with some kind of
weird thing between Mom and me and like
you know that whole thing I just I
couldn't
I couldn't sign up for it and so I
stayed in the bad relationship I stayed
in the religion trying to thinking that
it was my kids were better off because
of it and I really they weren't
links to your own childhood doesn't it
where your parents separated when you
were super young
yeah like so much was going on in my
mind when I'm three years old and my dad
is no longer present and then my mom
premiered eight my father goes through a
bunch of problems and like I remember my
father
uh I give credit to my father for owning
up to his life I remember I I knew my
father was on drugs at the age like
seven or eight
and I would call him when I knew he was
high
I'd say hey Dad like how's it going
and
you know like
um
I just knew it I wrote him letters and
like he you know
um
yeah we just worked through it together
but uh it was always on my mind
if you're visibly emotional to say that
yeah
why
I mean he's in pain and he's stuck and
he can't overcome this terrible thing
that's ruining his life and he's not a
father to me and you know he
he uh he can't pick me up when he says
he's gonna pick me up and he can't do
the things he wants to do so it's just
it's uh it depressed it steals life from
him and it still is life from me and
it's something that uh
dominated his life for a long time
you make that decision to separate and
to leave the community of Mormonism
what's life like from then onwards
I mean
so it was I I sold Braintree yeah so
within one year's time
I sold Braintree
got a divorce
left the church
and overcame my depression wow
and what are you
one year and I think maybe the moment
that captures it the most is I was I was
in Virginia at the time
and I was looking at where I was going
to live next and so I spent some time in
New York
and for the first time I went to a party
in Brooklyn a warehouse party or they
they started like at midnight or one
and I'd go there with some friends and I
would dance for six seven hours
and it was I think one of the most
joyful experiences of my entire life I
had never danced before
but for some reason this moment of
eliminating all this weight that had
been on me for all this time I just felt
free and I can move my body like I never
had before my friends would
uh they would be they were in disbelief
that after five six seven hours I'm like
let's go
let's find something else but it was I
think it was probably
an outpouring of
desire that it had for all these years
that just was bottled up and it was also
the time that I I was starting to
reconstruct I mean I had the money I
didn't care about spending the money on
anything like I didn't like money has no
value to me outside of the objective to
do something meaningful for the world
and so I really started spending an
enormous amount of time thinking about
through this question if you've applied
this filter
what matters in the 25th Century
like you go back look what matters in
the 15th century and 16th and 17th and
you find that
99 of all things that happen I'm making
up a number
is gone
and we're left with these teeny little
nuggets of information now there's more
because we're capturing more than we
ever had before but time has a way to
filter out non-essential relevance
and so if you say that now if we say
what we're doing in 2023 and you look at
your life and you map out what's going
to be left of your existence in 10 years
100 years 200 years 300 years
and that's what I want to focus on is
only those things everything else is to
me in my it's not for everyone for me
it's a waste of my capacity as a person
when you describe dancing in Brooklyn I
mean if I lived in Brooklyn for three
years so I I did the warehouse parties I
know the vibe the very low unsuperficial
nature of the place and the energy you
you describe it almost therapeutically
as being able to kind of
shake out yeah wait that you were
holding yeah specifically what is that
weight you were holding you've sold
Braintree
if you're dancing in Brooklyn what is
the weight you're you're shaking out
my entire life I had been told by
Authority structures whether it be a
religion
or Society or a relationship or
Community you can do these things you
can think these things you can say these
things and you can become these things
everyone wanted to put limiters
and after that
none it was no longer a game of what you
can't do it was a game of what I can do
and it just exploded and now my entire
life is what I can do
potential is terrifying and I can the
moment somebody starts creeping on that
that they want to superimpose a label on
me or superimpose a norm or superimpose
any tool humans have to say oh you
stepped out of line you need to be
punished
I can feel it like I know where people
try to create those guardrails and
everyone does it because it's like oh if
you're doing something that's not normal
I feel uncomfortable I want to bring you
back into the herd because that's going
to make me feel a lot better and so I'm
attuned to
the constant attempts at people trying
to normalize everyone else
we do that in language right we say
someone is weird and you know I think of
moments where I broke out of my my
community when I say my community I mean
like you know you have a group of
friends and and then you say I'm going
to start business and I'm going to be
this guy and the they use words to pull
you back in these facial expressions
little subtle
you know exactly the little you're the
telling you you're weird and stupid and
ridiculous without saying it with words
um
people think you're weird don't they
uh that's one word they use yeah yeah
now it makes sense to me now now it
makes sense to me with the context of
your religion and how
imprisoned you you say you felt in the
context of that religion I can now
understand your resilience and your
resistance
to falling in line
yeah and not only that it's it's play
now for me right it's like a mousetrap
yeah
um I want to push the part of the mouse
trap that makes it snap and pull my
finger out before my finger gets trapped
and it's just like this whole little
thing is a set of mouse traps I'm like
this one today and then like by doing
that you really get a feel for these all
these invisible layers we have in
society so what you just said is it's so
I loved your comment it's just like like
the smallest facial feature and uh audio
captures the whole thing right like I
disapprove of your behavior of your
thought process if you do this I'm going
to penalize you by not offering you my
friendship and approval and you put in
the Penalty Box and it's like
half of a second of a gesture but it
collapses the entirety on your shoulders
where you're like oh man
I don't want to be part of the out group
I want to be part of the group
I wonder how much potential is trapped
behind those little facial expressions
and that little social Conformity
pressure you know like human potential
of creativity and Ingenuity and thinking
for yourself and you know
must be a
Jesus Christ most of human potential
must be trapped behind that yeah so this
is the thing this is why I'm playing
when you build this wall and you have
images you have strings attached to each
one you're trying to scaffold like how
is information scaffolded
you can use this you can poke a system
and get the response back and then get
fill in the Contours like oh like this
is what people think and feel in this
moment of what the Norms are because
otherwise they're invisible so that's
why when someone tells you a story about
their behavior at the coffee shop and
how some person was rude to someone or
whatever they're revealing to them that
to everyone else in the conversation all
the norm structures they have
and if you listen carefully you
understand how they have scaffold
information what Norms they've accepted
which things are rejecting and where
they play in that hierarchy
are there any correlations between
the most successful people you've met or
happy people you know you've met and
their ability to embody and take on
these social constructs do you know what
I'm saying yeah my mother is one of the
happiest people I've ever met my life
and she plays exactly in the norm
structure of the religion she's deeply
religious she's still Mormon she thrives
in the Mormon Community everyone loves
her
she's delightfully happy and so my
mother does not need to push boundaries
she doesn't need to explore the
possibilities she she has a singular
reality it works for her she's happy
she's joyful she's a fantastic mother so
I guess there's like all these different
archetypes of people who play in
different spaces for me that wasn't
where I thrive
you thrive
my education has come from biographies
and I've read
I don't know over 100.
all throughout history and I love
learning about people in their time and
place who identify something impossibly
hard to see
and do
and they did both
and when you do that it the algorithm of
human behavior is so predictable
of defiance and hate and vitriol like it
just goes through the same cycle every
single time and so I have all these
models in my mind of people who've done
these things and so I know when I do
this myself I know what models to
anticipate I know how that naturally
winds its way through Society and also
how to fingerprint what things are
inevitable so you find a given thing you
say what are the characteristics around
this idea or invention or whatever
and then once you have it you know it's
societal adoption is inevitable it does
not matter what humans say doesn't
matter if they Revolt doesn't matter if
they bring the pitchforce that doesn't
matter it's going to find its way
through push all the way through
humanity and that's the thing is the
what are the ideas you can't see what
characteristics do they have and when
they become inevitable and do you
consider yourself to be an instigator of
new ideas
if I were to make a Whimsical and flimty
statement I would say I was born to
introduce these new ideas into society
and what is that new idea
uh it's that in the 21st century
the only objective we have is don't die
don't die
it's that simple
but we're gonna we're all gonna die now
you don't think so this is the thing so
this is why it sounds
silly because I was told everybody dies
the only thing inevitable in life is
death are we driving past a graveyard
the other day and I pointed and said
great business that because yeah because
you know I think it was like it was like
a it was a graveyard it was a um like a
funeral home and I was like great
business yeah they'll never have a
customer yeah
okay so if you let's think about the
structure of why that statement may be
the rallying Cry of the 21st century
those two words
so we may think like we're inclined to
think that
uh genius or sophistication or whatever
is in this much broader complexity of
statement it may be two words don't die
so Galaxy's 13.8 years old Earth is 4.5
right something like that
where baby steps away from creating
super intelligence
we cannot
we cannot model out what the future is
going to be like in any way shape or
form
we do not have the intellectual capacity
to predict to model to anticipate we're
blind
it's an intelligence first period in US
in that situation the only thing we can
play
is don't die
don't kill each other
don't ruin our biosphere
don't rule in Planet Earth
and don't underestimate aligning with AI
the only objective of the future of our
existence
we have to figure out how all
Intelligence on this planet cooperates
humans and the planet artificial
intelligence it's this big tapestry of
goal alignment of cooperation
that is the only task Humanity has ahead
of us
okay let's start with number one then
yeah so the first one is don't die so I
guess yes or no question do you think
it's possible for us in the in the short
future to live forever yes okay right
I'm gonna go one step further back your
health Journey before you came to that
realization what did that look like in
terms of were you a healthy young man
were you were you drinking alcohol yeah
no I mean as a as a kid my mother did a
did the best she could under the
circumstances we were pretty poor she
ground we She Made bread for us we also
ate sugar cereal we put sugar on our
sugar sugar cereal we were in the sun
constantly with no sunscreens we had
excessive skin sun exposure
um you know we ate processed foods like
it was just it was United the United
States cultural environment in the 1980s
like we just were cemented in that
cultural norm so I'd say you know not
terribly healthy uh then 20 years of
Entrepreneurship depression bad
relationship trying to live with
religion I kind of destroyed myself body
and mind for 20 years
and how do you feel about that now
because I remember reading a quote where
you said it pains me to think about the
damage you've done to your body up until
that up until now it pained me really it
pains me to see all the damage I did to
myself
really pains you it does
when I you know that's a phrase right
but is there reality to that pain I
I feel like I have a relationship to my
former self as though my former self
were present I don't view it as a it's
gone by because in many ways when I'm
reversing my aging when I'm becoming
more healthy I'm moving back in time I'm
moving back to a younger biological
state so I'm occupying the person that
formerly occupied me and so I I have
this relationship with time that is
atypical or typically I would normally
say like well that's just happened and
now I just have to go forward but given
where the science and technology is at I
do believe we can travel back in time
now it's you know we're blueprint is
showing the possibilities we're not
there yet on doing this these dramatic
things but I think it's coming
and so yeah I I've literally feel pain
because I'm moving into that space
you feel pain because you're moving into
that space okay yeah that is yeah most
of us consider the past to be gone
exactly I don't I I feel like I
feel like it's recoverable and that I
experience it
so take me forward from that point then
I want to know when things started to
change in terms of your health
perspective and just do not die yeah
well I started taking care of myself
after I saw Braintree in the divorce and
all that kind of stuff I started paying
attention to my health more so than I
ever had my entire life
and it came back to this question you
know what one thing do I do in existence
that would be meaningful not five things
or six things like one thing that
matters in the 25th Century and
I worked on I came up with this idea
that basically
the core of it is
I can't trust myself to act act in my
best interest and it's stem from
depression I knew my mind my mind was
encouraging me to commit suicide on a
Non-Stop basis yes yeah that's what
chronic depression feels like is you
desperately want to commit suicide every
moment of every day you just want relief
from the awfulness and you can't you
cannot imagine
feeling not depressed and so I I knew
that I couldn't trust my mind when it
was doing these things and so then also
I have this problem with food where I
would feel so depressed and I would feel
stressed from the day from work with my
kids and so it was my inability to stop
myself
from overeating every single night and
walking myself into an early grave so
then I paired those things two things
together like okay first of all my
brain's like hey why don't you commit
suicide and two my body's like why don't
you just eat yourself into Oblivion and
I couldn't stop myself
I thought this is really weird that we
humans are the most intelligent species
on the planet yet I'm doing these
behaviors that are not in my best
interest this is really weird and I
can't stop but I'm totally helpless in
doing it and start piecing together this
philosophy of like okay this is
interesting we kind of treat planet
Earth like we treat our bodies my
behavior is not too dissimilar from what
Society is doing
and I thought what is the larger
implication of the situation
we humans
have a problem
of acting in our best interest
is there alternative structure of
authority
that could do a better job
and that's when I really came up with
the core of what blueprint is which is I
said okay instead of my mind doing this
on a regular basis I'm going to measure
every organ in my body
I'm going to ask it what it needs to be
in its best space so my kidney and liver
and heart and lungs you're going to take
the data look at scientific evidence and
then create an algorithm and then I'm
going to follow that algorithm
uh perfectly and so my body is going to
call the shots not my mind
and that was when it all kind of came
together uh with trying to piece the
other AI maybe the revolution
is we humans have done a wonderful job
to arrive at this point
maybe it's time for us to pass the
Reigns to other control systems
that manage our long-term interests
better
and what are those long-term control
systems that you believe can manage our
interests better I mean for example now
like my my mind is not authorized to
look at a menu in order it's not
authorized to have a pizza party it's
not authorized to just on the whim
decide I want to have a cookie
my body is in charge my body reports
this data it looks at scientific
evidence and algorithm runs so I have
opted into an algorithm that takes
better care of me
than I can myself
my mind can chirp
and can Heckle from the bleachers
but it does not have the authority to
make the decision
but you must understand the mind is
doing that for a reason the mind is also
concerned with survival it's not that uh
um cause harm to you that's not it's
objective
you know it wasn't that makes no sense
from a survival perspective that you'd
have this enemy in your head
so how do you reason why the mind is
telling you to do these things
if we just let the data speak so let's
just say uh we're looking at DNA
methylation patterns and it's these are
this is data that shows how fast the
body's aging so here's your speed of
Aging so I take my former self and say
what is the data show how fast am I
aging and how fast is disease
progressing and what's my what's my
likelihood of dying then and now
and you compare the two
there's no comparison the system that's
running me now so far out competes the
other version it's ridiculous
so just from a so let's just um I'll go
one layer deeper on this
what I did is I
I asked this broader question so we have
ai we have super Intelligence being
created we have to figure out alignment
how do we use AI so that we humans
continue to exist
so we don't kill each other
so the AI doesn't destroy everything
like so we're just trying to survive
right Society to survive how would you
possibly go about doing that problem
and so I started thinking about this
alignment problem within me so I'm 35
trillion cells thereabouts maybe more
how could I as an entity align my 35
trillion cells to cooperate
and we're trying to do that with people
with Society right you're trying to get
this huge number of things to cooperate
and then I wanted to measure and say
Okay what is perfect cooperation on the
objective of me slowing my speed of
Aging
and then I did hundreds of measurements
and we said okay here's actually what
science can do in this moment with
everything with diet and sleep and
exercise all being perfect here's the
maximum amount of slowing speed of Aging
for my 35 trillion sales to do
anything above that I consider it to be
an act of violence now we use violence
in society to we typically associate
people beating each other like physical
acts of violence I expanded the term to
capture my own behavior
so if I did if I ate something or did
something that would increase my speed
of Aging that was an act of violence
against self
because my 35 trillion sales were no
longer aligned it was like this one
aberration be like hey I wanted this
thing but it ruins 35 trillion cells I
wanted to pose a question we as a
species are trying to figure out how to
cooperate can I do that with me as a
single entity
and that's what I've been trying to do
goal alignment within Brian Johnson 35
trillion cells to a single objective
exist
so why is the brain our adversary
why is it being uncooperative with the
longevity of the 35 million cells
I mean let's just say like let's just
remove all story let's just say if we
categorized as violence anything we did
as a species
that brought death closer to us whether
it be our personal death or whether it
be the Earth's death and we Quantified
that and we said how much violence do we
do we do in a self-destructive way what
is that number
huge
so if you when you look at that frame we
are a self-destructive species now it
goes back this idea that of death of
like if you say death is inevitable for
everybody
it doesn't matter if I commit these
self-destructive acts like I'm gonna die
anyway so like why do I care if it's 10
years earlier than normal whatever I'm
35 now and I've when I'm 70 I don't care
if I live to 80 like that's how you
think so that's why this this whole
death idea
feeds the self-destruction because no
one cares
if death is not inevitable you
immediately come back to the thing to
threatens the thing you care about the
very most which is anything that
threatens existence
and so the society we have right now the
majority of the philosophies say
be you know play by these rules and you
get this afterlife
right they said death is inevitable but
we're all playing for this later game
and so everyone feels fine in this
colossal self-destruction
if you take that away
and then you say you can live in this
life
it's an entirely different game and
that's why the 21st century the singular
revolution could be don't die because it
it flips the philosophical structure of
society on its head
and this will lead you to project
blueprint which is what
a project blueprint is an attempt
at
don't die at every layer of society
individually collectively with AI and
the planet so you trying to reverse your
your age or are you trying not to die
are you trying both off
and so the same thing is true like just
like I've done blueprint with me
planet Earth is the body
so you would approach the same problem
you would measure Earth with millions of
measurements at some interval you'd use
scientific evidence to say what is the
appropriate sustainable biosphere of
coral reef of ocean of temperature in
the in the world of ocean acidity of all
the different parts of our biosphere
and you apply the scientific evidence
and that creates the closed loop system
to say this is how you don't die
okay so let's focusing again on do not
die which was actually one of the Only
Rule in my first company now it feels
like it has new meaning we wrote it on
the wallet when we first moved into the
office we just wrote one rule here and
we just wrote do not die that's great we
said it as a joke but you know maybe
you're under something yeah
when you think about do not die what are
the things that stand the greatest
chance of killing us in order of
priority
like there's basic things on a
day-to-day basis like driving is among
the highest risk factors we do all of us
do on a databases so every time I get
into a car I have a ritual where I say
driving I say it out loud driving is the
most dangerous thing I do
as a reminder every time I get in the
car
don't text don't be on your phone
like pay attention to the rise of the
road because like you you forget every
time you jump in the car you're so
tempted to like do all these things that
imperil your life so you say that out
loud every time I'd love to watch you
drive
where you can drive me whenever as well
because I feel like I trust you to focus
on the road so driving is number one of
things that pose a really statistically
High threat of mortality what else yeah
I mean there are so people have built
nice statistical models that that uh
show like risk of death like insurance
companies of course like they do that um
I'm really after the cultural norms yeah
that
we have built a society addicted to
addiction
we're all addicted
so you you just think about this from a
25th Century perspective you put a human
Like Us in an environment
and you encircle them
with dozens of fast food chains dozens
of uh stores selling sugary drinks of
junk food of porn of infinite scroll of
Netflix binging alcohol smoking gambling
nicotine right like you like your
masturbation not yeah like there you go
like your list is and then you say like
okay human
on your own with your own willpower
resist this and then around them you've
got
the power of our Godlike Powers pointing
at the individual with the only
objective is to getting that person
addicted to their thing their app their
food their show their whatever
everything's point in the individual the
individual is like
I'm overwhelmed I can't sleep you know
like I don't feel well I I can't
exercise I don't have any time
we were just sick as a society and it's
because we've structurally built this
around this yeah it's a it's kind of a
disaster for us in the moment where
we're trying to muster up soberness of
thought
of how do we navigate these simultaneous
existential risks we Face how do we not
destroy our biosphere how do we align
with AI how do we get humans not engage
in nuclear war or bio Warfare or
whatever
it's um we're just we have really
serious challenges to solve and we're
all impaired
it makes you have a great deal of
empathy for The Human Experience when
you you frame as we've taken a human
being you know baby is born and then we
surround them with fast food chains and
sugar and all these things that are
highly highly addictive and then we say
to them be healthy do your best yeah you
know don't don't kill yourself and you
know yeah good luck good luck it's sad
and then it's it's I say empathy because
you have when you frame it like that I
go no wonder people are struggling you
know with sleepless nights obesity
cardiovascular diseases porn addictions
drug addictions
you know because we've manipulated the
I'm not going to try and pretend I'm a
neuroscientist but we've manipulated the
chemicals in their brain yeah
to control them for often for you know
corporate greed and other things that's
right
you mentioned sleep
and you point at this as being really
foundational to
Health yeah when I sit here with these
you know psychologists and health
experts and doctors and heart surgeons
and brain surgeons they always point to
sleep as they all point at sleep as
being foundational the other day you did
a tweet
about your sleep do you know what I'm
talking about
screenshot yeah I think it was whoop
right yeah that's right
and it showed that you'd had a hundred
percent sleep for six months straight
four months straight now four months
straight 99 Brazil yes 100 for four
months 99 the other two months I'm going
for a six month 100 streak
why is sleep so important
because you you cite it in your work as
being one of the the most foundational
things I think you actually called it
the most important in one one interview
yeah
I mean if if you and I were gonna make a
list of like
the things that
are most influential in our lives in how
we think about and feel about life
I would put number one asleep nothing
changes my conscious existence
more
than a poor night sleep or a bad or
they're a good night's sleep
I agree
I've become incredibly obsessed with my
sleep some people's obsessions they
become a little bit unhealthy but mine I
think is healthy because it certainly
moved my life forward in every metrical
area that I care about
um let's go on and go in and sleep then
so what do you do
to achieve this month over month perfect
sleep because when I saw that I thought
oh my [__] god like I use whoop as
well as you can see and yeah if I can
trust your data to mine yeah you know
sometimes I'm having like 24 recovery 50
recovery if I go to a hotel room then
it's even worse I flew out here to La I
had three the first three days my sleep
was awful the fourth day it was fine
what are you doing
yeah
um yeah I'm so glad you have that shared
experience for those who do try to track
it and even those with whoop
many don't realize how hard it is
the most important thing is I
I've built my life around sleep
now that is the exact opposite of
cultural norms where sleep is the thing
that gets pushed around
so if you want to go out with friends
delay your bedtime if you want if you
need to finish a work project or school
project if you want to hang out and
watch your new show just dropped you
want to watch a few episodes we push
sleep around from our earliest of days
like it's always the thing that can be
compromised and I made a rule that sleep
happens every single night at the same
time no exceptions ever
I mean that must come at a cost it does
come at a cost what is the cost I mean
that cost is substantially less now
because I've made the hard decisions
and uh so it's no longer
getting there is hard but once you do
that and it's the norm it becomes much
easier you just have to make the life
changes so that's the first big one then
I did like a bunch of small things like
for example my last meal of the day is
at 11AM
sorry well your last meal of the day is
at 11AM yes I eat between 6 a.m and 11
A.M okay and so then by the time I go to
bed at 8 30 I've got you know eight plus
hours of digestion so I sleep best on an
empty stomach now some some people don't
like that they feel pain they do much
better sleeping towards night but I ran
a few hundred experiments of a time to
eat how much to eat what kinds of foods
to eat what kind of exercise protocols
I've trialled hundreds of times and I
found a protocol that worked for me
where when I do this and I lay down
before bed my resting heart rate is
around 45.
if I get that I know I'm going to have a
new perfect night sleep if it's elevated
at a 53 or 54 because of like a few
events that could trigger to a higher I
know I'm gonna have a I'm going to
struggle to hit like deep and REM goals
and I might be a little more Restless
I'll still hit my 100 objective but it's
not going to be as the same level of
quality as if I hit something else
so I know all the little little teeny
tiny tweaks to get this to be perfect
every night I asked you a second ago I
want to make sure I get announced to
this I said this must come at a cost
yeah what is the cost
so my bedtime is at 8 30 because that's
where the data led me
I tried 11 10 39 I tried all the
different variations since this just
worked
um so anything that happens past 8 30 I
don't participate in and so sometimes my
friends are doing things past 8 30 that
I want to do
but I don't do them so I miss out on
certain social events now my friends
have been cool enough where they'll do
things to accommodate my time frame so
do something in the late afternoon where
I can do things with them and hang out
and have fun and still make my bedtime
and so my friends have been and family
have been great to adapt to allow me to
participate in community while still
doing this
so I've been I've been experimenting as
well I mean I can have to say to tell
you I've been experimenting feels like
I'm not going to say my experiments but
what I've I've got a bunch of hypotheses
around my sleep one of the big ones as
well as the room temperature so during
summer in the UK because most houses in
the UK don't have air conditioning
because we don't expect the Sun so it's
a surprise yeah
um through those four weeks where we
have sunshine I don't my sleep is awful
I'm sweating in bed what would you say
about temperature and also I've got a
broken blind in the room yeah so you
know at 6am or whatever the light starts
pouring in what would you say about all
those factors I agree uh temperature
plays a significant role light does a
sound
yeah whether you have a partner in bed
with you or not yeah I'm going to talk
about this yeah
because I actually speaking of Simon
cynic last night about this we went to
dinner and I was talking to him about
having sat with Matthew Walker and we
discussed I think Matthew Walker Donna
quote him inaccurately but he said when
there's divorce and couples break up 15
of the reason is attributed to sleep I.E
them compromising each other's sleep
what do you think about sleeping in bed
with somebody else
it's a it's a hard topic because a lot
of people don't have the luxury of
sleeping in different rooms yeah when
somebody wants to have good sleep there
are some things they can't control like
trying to go to bed at a certain time is
something they have some control over
they need to adjust Lifestyles and
family and stuff like that
but sometimes that relationship but so
people who do have the fortunate
circumstances to be in separate rooms
it is substantially better because
trying to negotiate with another person
their bedtime their sleep hygiene
is really difficult and wake events are
very costly once you go uh once you get
woken up and then go back to sleep is
very hard so it's just extremely
challenging when you've got to
coordinate with another human
so do you ever sleep in bed with someone
else no
what about hanky-panky
no you have no sex uh not after 8 30.
okay so you gotta do like
Morning Glory
yeah I mean so these are these are the
kinds of things like you know uh so I'm
single yeah in circumstances where I've
tried to date
the first thing I do is I give them a
list of 10 things like here's all the
things you're gonna hate about me and
it's gonna make me an impossible partner
for you
and like you know those are like it's a
big deal what is on the list
give me the list I mean so uh sleep is
one thing you know I go to bed at 8 30.
uh my food regimen is another now I do
compromise on foods like if we if we go
out with friends we'll have dinner time
then I will save up you know a certain
number of calories and I'll eat
something at the restaurant some steamed
vegetables or something like that so I
do try to be normal and also when I'm
out with people
nothing makes people feel more
uncomfortable than an empty plate and
think why what are you doing and are you
on a fast protocol are you in a juice
cleanse and so I just try to blend into
the environment like there's no
questions everyone can enjoy being
present
though I try to do those things
um but other
yeah other things for example like my
desire to speak I I'm not a talkative
person I don't do small talk
so my son and I have a protocol at the
house where there's no exchange like
good morning how are you you know like
I'm deep in thought like my morning my I
go to bed early I wake up early and I
have these four or five hours of
concentrated thought where I can think
about these really big pictures and try
to pull myself out of my situation and
just be as sober as possible like what
is really happening to the best of my
abilities and that's actually probe
myself to these these deep levels and I
you can get knocked off so fast just
like a little teeny interaction hey how
are you doing how was your sleep you
have to activate this mode of like I'm
gonna be a nice person I'm going to
engage with you I'm going to listen to
you and just shifting that knocks me off
and so there's with the path that I've
chosen that I really care about
achieving these objectives
I break all these social norms
and it's offensive to a lot of people
you know that it's just not not an
acceptable situation for a lot of people
that's another instance though where
someone would say oh he's weird yeah
exactly right and when you so when I was
just saying this I absolutely am mapped
to everyone listening to this being like
that dude it was awful I would never
want to be with him oh what a boar or
like I'd imagine I can see all the
comments on social media now like dozens
and dozens of people ripping me to be
like oh that dude and like making their
meanest comment I know that's going to
trigger it it's like throughout this
whole thing of course like people are
gonna grab what I say and they're gonna
try to just dissect me and rip me apart
for all the things I violate that they
don't want to exist
so
it's a constrained romantic relationship
we're gonna have if we're we're me and
you together Brian because he can't
speak in the morning I can't speak to
you in the morning can't really do any
hanky pancakes so I mean there's kind of
a small window for our relationship to
exist
we're gonna have to get a lot done yeah
like three or four hours yeah we're
gonna have to have sex and then we're
gonna have to resolve all of our
problems and then I'm gonna have to
offload yeah what else is is important
there tell me about your sleep regime so
the things you do just before sleep we
know you don't eat near sleep anything
else that's really important
uh I'd say let me take them off yes go
to bed same time every night no
exceptions
temperature controlled room and or
mattress what temperature
uh I currently am at I think 71. I go to
bed at 78 and then Fahrenheit and then I
sleep at 71 thereabouts then I come up
for REM 73. so temperature and then
sound sound yep so uh aware of
potential
sources of noise that could wake you up
so if you
um
if you're in a noisy environment of
sirens like a big city environment or
dogs barking or something being aware
because sound will wake you up and so
you're really trying to minimize it
every time you wake up
if you need to do something to limit
what consider your ears or doing white
noise or whatever you're doing
then identifying when you eat and what
you eat for example I know from my
experience in trying new things if I
were to sometimes I would try an almond
crust
piece of pizza like this is years ago
when I'm really trying to start figuring
stuff out that would wreck my sleep
flower of any type wrecks my sleep it
elevates my resting heart rate into the
high 50s and I know I'm going to have
about 50 percent less deep sleep
and it's all these little teeny tiny
understandings of how a particular kind
of food is going guaranteed direct my
sleep or even three ounces of red wine
anytime after noon guaranteed to
devastate my deep sleep
and
so understanding how food intake affects
that and then I know I try to have an
hour a wind down time every night
if I go to bed if I work right up to
when I go to bed
I will ruminate all night long on that
topic and so it will feel like I never
actually go to sleep
because I'm always just in that light
sleep ruminating on this problem but
weirdly I found that if I follow my
entire protocol right before I go to bed
now I'll assign my brain a problem every
night before I go to bed and I now have
my very best thoughts in life in my
sleep
my brain figures things out much more
efficiently in my sleep than I do when
I'm awake the now's become an asset to
me uh versus before it was just a
terrible experience
and if if I you know I I if I can I
sometimes I gotta be honest sometimes I
have snacks before bed you know
which we're amongst friends here I can
be honest sometimes you know you know
sometimes it just gets about because I
feel that because I work quite late into
the night and then I get to 9 or 10 p.m
and I'll be sat there thinking I've not
eaten yet and I've got this pain in my
stomach so getting just going to bed on
with the pain in my stomach feels quite
difficult so I'll just you know
order something on one of these little
apps yeah yeah don't tell anybody
because you know um but they're not and
then I eat it and you're right 10
seconds it feels great and then after
that I feel I feel like crap yeah you
have to pay the price the whole next day
is there anything that I you you can eat
later in the day or you can eat at
dinner time that has a smaller negative
adverse consequence in your sleep is it
just like vegetables and stuff
vegetables are fine vegetables and this
is for me I need to clarify what I do is
for me other people thrive on other
things so this is just a data point
people can use in their mind that you
fine-tune all these different things but
I think the data is interesting I've
never seen anyone with a four month
streak of perfect sleep I'm in the 98
99.6 percentile of recovery too so it's
not just my sleep quality which people
often say oh you can just gain that not
a big deal people who know really know
that's not true but then also optimizing
if you're HIV and your your uh
respiration rate my recovery is also
99.6 percentile so I'm hitting
all the markers on the highest quality
possible performance in sleep and my
body's recovering at the maximum
capacity and so it's good data that I'm
not just making stuff up the data shows
I'm potentially best in world on this
measurement profile
or among so it's interesting that it's a
reasonable way for someone to
contemplate what they might do in their
life do you think there's anyone better
in the world that's sleeping than you
probably there's there's probably some
people may I I wonder if all the years
of ruining myself
if it has a carryover effect like I just
can't make up entirely for all the
things I did I wonder if that's the case
and I wonder if people who haven't done
that naturally sleep better than me and
that I have to try extra hard now
because I'm compensating for all the
damage I did to myself I don't know
for those in my certain circumstances I
don't think anyone tries harder to sleep
than me
hey John V you mentioned that why is
that important and what did it what what
is it yeah it's a heart rate variability
and it's a representation of your
nervous system there's two parts your
parasynthetic nervous system and your uh
it's like your autonomic number system
and you're trying to basically
tether between being chill
and being in fight or flight and so when
you're stressed
your body's like all right like we're
ramped up we've called all the resources
to do this job but you can't be in that
high State Long you need to be in a
relaxed State as well so you're trying
to bring the parasynthetic nervous
system on in time and to relax the
sympathetic nervous system and so the
HIV is representation of are you chill
or are you stressed having a high HRV is
better than having a low HRV I worked
very hard at it it's been one of the
hardest markers we've had to move I I
had a meaningful increase in my HRV over
the past 500 Days
I was I started I was believing the ER
like the mid-30s range and I'm now up in
the low 60s on average
so uh good gains but still not anywhere
close where I want to be uh I thought
where I thought we'd be at this point
it's been really really hard to move and
you hate heart rate ver variability
right yes is that what it's called and
what is that as in it's the gaps between
your heartbeats or something exactly yes
the interval between yeah so it measures
the interval between your heart beats
and how much that varies or
that's right okay so you want High you
want
so if my heart rate variability is like
I think great it's definitely above 100
depending on you know when I've done
that I'm jealous well yeah that's maybe
that's one thing I can teach you about
but but what is that 120 what I've
always wondered I see it and I know that
that's better oh milliseconds yeah
so 120 milliseconds variance between the
heartbeats
and there's a whole bunch of ways if you
get into the actual math you can measure
them you can actually do this
calculation a number of different ways
it gets really Technical and
sophisticated
but the general understanding is you
want a higher number you want a bigger
number you do you do some things before
bedtime to improve your heart rate
variability
uh I do I've tried several devices I've
used sense8 which is a vibrational thing
in the chest I've used pulsetto which is
a vibration on the vagus nerve here I've
used neural stim which is on the left
tragus
uh here anything any of them work
a little bit here and there none sustain
I mean I given the amount of effort I
put into my health and wellness I sh I
would like to think I'd be over a
hundred in my HRV
can't it doesn't move it's just a really
hard marker I wonder
if all the decades where I was depressed
out of my mind and really stressed out
of everything if I just ruined myself to
degrees that are hard to come back from
so we've been trying to find something
more advanced that would do something
outside of diet and exercise and routine
and sleep we haven't found it yet it's
crazy that one of the most pivotal
moments in my life was when I put my
whoop on and the founder told me about
this how important that HRV marker is
how much of an indicator it is of
overall health you know cracking with my
life had a glass of wine one day I wake
up the next morning yeah and it's
flashing red and I click on it and it's
like did you have some alcohol last
night and I'm thinking oh my God yeah
like genuinely that moment was was when
I realized that these choices I make
however small I think they might be
especially with alcohol have my heart
notices
and it's saying to me you're either it
said you're either stressed you're
either sick or you had some alcohol last
night yeah I thought I don't like those
three things being in a category
together alcohol
what'd you think of it
I used to drink three ounces every
morning with breakfast
you used to drink three three ounces of
alcohol every morning with breakfast
I enjoyed drinking alcohol I enjoyed
drinking the wine for breakfast for
breakfast because I had to create the
longest time period between my sleep to
avoid it negatively affecting my sleep
okay but then I got rid of it because it
was too expensive from a caloric
perspective it was 72 calories for the
three ounces and I couldn't fit it in
with my calorie budget
so what do you think of it in terms of
um in terms of longevity
I think the science says in moderation
is fine
I just I don't Rick it at all ever
anymore
and you've only really been been
following this protocol for a couple of
years now right yeah I mean my I guess I
I really do understand myself
as
on a singular mission
for intelligent existence to thrive
that is what I am that is what I'm doing
that's what I'm pursuing
nothing else matters to me the question
the ultimate question I think
in you know you just had all these
people are going to say I'm weird or
whatever else there's this ultimate
question because you're very very
clearly Mission driven
and there's always a cost much of what I
do here when I meet Extraordinary People
is to understand the cost in fact the
reason I start this podcast is because
we we let's call the diver CEO is
because we see the CEO stuff but we
don't see the diary that's why it's
called what it is and it started as me
just showing my diary and I shed
everything from masturbation my mental
struggles everything my issues with my
family I shared it all to to put the
cost out there to the world
cost of my mission my calling my Pursuit
the thing that was dragging me
um
the ultimate question becomes
are you happy
never more so in my entire life
unquestionably
and what does that mean
I've never felt more fulfilled I've
never felt more stable I've never felt a
more expansive Consciousness I've never
felt more free I've never felt more bold
I've never in my entire life
been this alive
and you you experienced the antithesis
of Happiness right you experienced I
mean maybe some people would argue that
it's something else but you experience
the bottom of
the crevice of depression you know what
that felt like
the voices in your head that were
telling you to do things the unthinkable
actions of
suicide
what goes on in your head now what are
the same voices saying
it's all play I'm
I've never had more fun
most of my life has just been a grind
it's like doing the things to achieve
the objective because that's what the
societal role play says to do
and that what I'm doing now I'm not
doing this for anyone's expectations I'm
not doing this to achieve anyone's
acceptance
this is the game I've selected to play I
don't care what anyone says about it
sincerely
I just feel free
when was your last Dark Day
it was about something I can't yet talk
about
I wish I could
I will be able to soon
I respect that yeah yeah but I guess
it's uh it's like Mike my answer is a
genuine
uh in time this will be a good story
but outside of that yeah what are the
things that oh and are there things that
get you down yeah I I was um recently I
was uh pretty bothered
the the hate that comes my way is
energizing to me it's thrilling
uh
when my father did something with me
publicly with this plasma transfusions
the internet kind of had their way with
him you know making fun of him and
saying rude things and mean things that
really got to me
you're like hurl up my way cool but I my
father was courageous enough to do this
thing publicly and put himself out there
and he just got torn to shreds
and it it made me feel very sad and
ashamed of humanity
like my my seven-year-old dad you know
like he's not picking a fight with
somebody you know
so much
I don't know
I guess maybe I've always felt like a
protector of my dad maybe
why
uh it's just kind of how our roles
developed I suppose
you know when when he was in a state of
need I was in a stage of ability to give
started off When We Were Young when I
was young
you talked about plasma
I I saw the image on your Instagram when
I was waiting for you in there I was
going through your Instagram and looking
at all the captions on your posts and
stuff and looking and there was that
photo of you your son who looks very
much like you by the way and your father
beautiful photo of you all of you
wearing vests
and this was one of the the sort of
experiments you did you had a hypothesis
the hypothesis was
yeah yeah
we as a team we have uh scoured every
scientific study ever done on longevity
and lifespan and we've ranked
prioritized all of them and we filtered
out like which one your animal models
human models and we try to decide which
thing to do and why and plasma exchanges
surfaced as a potential option and
people were doing it for cognitive
decline so it came up where I was
talking to my dad and he said hey Brian
I need I want you to know something that
when you begin experiencing cognitive
decline which I have you don't know
said I always thought that if I'm
starting to lose my mind I'm going to
pick it up be like Oh I'm not as sharp
as I used to be but you don't know it's
invisible to you which makes sense and
so he said I've been on blueprint for a
couple months it's come back so I'm
aware of how fast I was losing my mental
acuity I'm back so in that conversation
I said dad you know I've been looking at
these plasma exchanges and there's some
interesting studies going on right now
with column decline Alzheimer's and
things like that that are showing
interesting results how the science is
still emergent we're not sure it's going
to work but if you're interested in
doing this I'd be more than happy to
donate my plasma to you that's how it
happened and so then I tell myself is oh
yes we have blood in our body and plasma
so you take the Blood Out We're Half
Blood half plasma if you take blood out
you spin it up it separates into yellow
stuff which is plasma and then red stuff
which is blood and so they're just
different things in the platform so it's
basically taking plasma of the body and
so I gave my father a leader of my
plasma but I was talking to my about
this to my son like hey I may give up a
liter of positive to my dad and so my
son is like cool can I be involved it's
like all right so is that this really
organic thing around my father and so it
was uh a lot of people learned about
this and then they they immediately
imagine like I'm in a dungeon drinking
my son's blood and I'm like harvesting
his organs and the reality was it was a
very is a Whimsical fun
you know heartwarming thing that our
family was was discussing and so we did
it and there was some some sort of
efficacy shown in mice or something
wasn't there yeah yeah there's so this
the evidence is like not bad it's not
terribly persuasive it's emergent so
it's not like we were going in there and
realized thinking that we had a slam
dunk it was like it's interesting it's
safe so let's give it a shot and it
didn't really work so you've on me on
you yeah which makes sense I mean so I'm
chronologically 45. many of my
phenotypic markers are in their 20s
right of course so my donor was 19 and
so it makes sense the age differential
given I'm so tuned it would make sense
that you would see a big change but for
my father maybe because there's a much
bigger difference between his health
status and my status and a different age
range too did was there a difference in
your father or did you not measure uh
we're still waiting for the results oh
okay yeah his subjective reporting was
that he felt uh phenomenal but we really
want to see the data and you also need
to probably do more of these right one
is is not enough you probably do it
successively so it was it ended up being
even though we approached it as my
father's cognitive decline and we were
looking at it through a medical
perspective it ended up being a family
bonding experience where we my father
left the church when I was young he was
ostracized I left a church I was
ostracized by my children and their
family so in my estimation it was we
were divided by the Mind United by
biology this goes back to blueprint
which is
are there control systems that help us
cooperate
not the Mind our mind we want to create
tribes we want to fight with each other
and we want to find good and evil and
all that sort of thing biology doesn't I
mean biology maybe is a different
control system
and so we were just trying to optimize
health and so you go back to that system
what are the control systems running
Humanity running our families running
you and me running Society I thought it
was beautiful because it was an
experience my father and son and I never
imagined we'd have in our entire lives
and it ended up being a spectacular
experience with the family that we
really appreciated as you were speaking
I was thinking about something I've just
written in the book that I've been
writing
um one of the pages is when I discovered
my father's cigarettes and it was this
like earth-shattering moment in my life
because I was suddenly haunted by this
feeling that my father was going to die
yeah
you know because as a kid you know
cigarettes are bad everyone tells you
that and then when you find out your
father is smoking them when I was like
14 years old it was this kind of crisis
in me that my father's gonna die
um
and I was I was thinking about what your
father went through and how that might
have introduced the concept of death to
you at a young age then I was also
observing how much he means to you and
every word you say about him and your
protectiveness over him and I was
wondering if there's some kind of Link
there um how did you reconcile with it
trying to get him to stop smoking yeah
yeah there you go at all costs what'd
you do
I think I cried about it a few times but
I think I just made him feel bad about
it right yeah maybe that's like the best
tool you can use when you're 14.
what about you
uh I'd write him letters really yeah
every week I'd write him a letter tell
him tell him how much he means to me
um I'm thinking about him
yeah
in the hope that
that he
it would give him the power he needed to
overcome his addiction
did you think about his him dying at
that age did had the concept of death
crossed your mind I just wanted a dad
yeah I wanted
I wanted him to be a part of my life
that explains why being a dad might say
much to you now probably yeah
yeah um I I noticed there's something on
the chair over there
um and I'm I'm actually starving it's
it's uh just gone for a clock and I
haven't eaten today but you were very
kind in bringing me some food so I want
to talk about I want to talk about food
um Jack could you bring me the food
please
and you can tell me what you've brought
me to eat presumably this is what you
eat that's right good
thank you
okay so you've you've brought me a meal
today I did just for anyone that's
looking I'll try and tilt it up so
people can see
um if anyone's watching on YouTube or
Spotify where you can get the video you
can see what's in these bowls and you've
bought me two little buckets of pills
yeah
and there's the drink here what is what
is this food
this is this is the answer if you ask
the body
what do you want to eat to be an ideal
Health this is the answer that it
generated
so this is not to say that is the only
food you could eat it is a version where
you could eat and so the my daily
caloric intake is uh 2 250 calories a
day every calorie has to fight for its
life there's not a single calorie in my
entire life protocol that exists for any
reason other than serving an objective
in the body so dish number one is called
super veggie it's broccoli cauliflower
black lentils garlic ginger hemp seeds
and over a month if you if you were to
do this with me you would eat around 70
pounds of vegetables per month
70 pounds of vegetables per month
wow
wow I think we also have in their extra
virgin olive oil and chocolate
yeah I can taste like cacao like dark
chocolate
so we I pair the chocolate in here it's
an unexpected pairing
the way we think about this is
you could say chocolate is good for you
which might lead you to eat a Snickers
bar the more precise way of thinking
about it is you want dark chocolate
untouched tests for heavy metals and has
a high polyphenol count
if you don't do all five layers to
qualify the value of the chocolate you
have an inferior chocolate and
nutritional value for your body so
everything we do at blueprint uses that
frame of reference of
understanding everything a full stack
way of how do you serve the body's
objectives in the maximal way that is
a mushroom covered in chocolate
how fun
so interesting
yeah those oh those are mataki mushrooms
mataki mushrooms this is a normal
broccoli isn't it that's right
you didn't put anything on it no no salt
I use potassium chloride new salt
and we've got some broccoli in there so
is that is that that dish explained
that's explained okay and then this is
looks like dessert to me nutty pudding
it is many people consider it to be a
dessert it's
macadamia nuts one that's flaxseed
sunflower relation
pomegranate juice berries and pea
protein
and is this the entire meal you'd have
in one day there's one more dish which
we don't have which varies day to day
okay
but this is really it I have three
tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil
ones in here and I have an avocado and a
third meal a day and this drink here
that you've given me make sure you stir
that up okay that's the Green Giant so
the way that it works is I'll wake up in
the morning first thing I'll do is drink
the Green Giant take 60 pills work out
for an hour then eat super veggie wait
for an hour eat nutty pudding wait for
one more hour and eat my third meal of
the day and then I'm finished for the
day
how many pills will you take in one day
currently 111. wow
and you take 60 of them in the morning
that's right
wow
wow that's an interesting taste I gotta
say it doesn't taste amazing you know
it's not like something I'd I'd find in
a like a juice bar or something there's
a little bit of a aftertaste to it
that's not not fantastic and um I mean I
like vegetables so I like most of this
stuff the chocolate I think
is a bit of a spanner in the works
because it's not like a chocolate that
you'd get it's not milk chocolate or a
mask that's right right it's um a very
very dark bitter taste
which is a strange thing to add to a
mushroom yeah you could also put the
dark chocolate in the Nutty pudding or
you can have it independently I find
it's fun because it's a new experience
for people to try so it's really an
optional thing oh this is nice
this nasty pudding is really nice
that's really nice
that's really really nice um so what are
your principles for eating then Clark
you talked about
um calorific restriction
how important is that because I'm I a
lot and I don't count I just
see yeah and I'm like you know am I
heaviest I'm 15 Stone fives which is
what about 100 kilograms or something so
I'm quite heavy
and I eat and I go to the gym every day
but I eat a lot I'm kind of out of
control
it has compelling evidence the caloric
restriction has compelling evidence that
it's one of the most effective longevity
interventions that can be done
and what are your sort of why do
nutritional principles that people can
very easily introduce into their lives
uh it's I have this exp I have this
experience where I learned how to fly an
airplane I became a pilot and we get up
at altitude and I would use my hands and
try to fly the airplane and I'd go left
right up down I try to be perfectly on
the attitude indicator of maintaining
exactly the altitude which I was pegged
at and the direction
and then I would engage autopilot and it
would this plane would just sit up
straight and it would be perfectly
pegged it was so far superior to my
ability to do it and that's kind of how
I think about my diet is if I use my
mind I kind of ping pong around life
eating this and that like I hear this
thing that there and I hear this thing
there and I kind of do whatever's
available to me if you think about
putting your body on autopilot I call it
my autonomous self
Let the Body report out evidence
algorithm in and it just runs this is
the result this is autopilot for my body
and so every single thing we do is
tracked in the body every pill has to
justify its existence if it can't be
measured and Quantified we don't do it
and so it's a system a closed loop
system that has an algorithm running me
which is so far superior to my mind
which is going to do it's going to add
the cookie to the order it's going to
eat blank because of whatever
I'm presuming you're not going to take
these backs
to this
[Laughter]
those are all the pills you take in one
day that's right 100 120 odd pills in a
day almost yeah 111 yeah that big one
right there
you can see that guy right there this
one here yeah Jesus Lord Jesus
what is in these pearls
a lot of things you would expect Basics
like vitamin D and C uh more advanced
things like alpha ketoglutarate or
metformin or carbos or other things like
that it spans from basic and common to
some more advanced
drugs a lot of my friends when they when
I well one of my friends in particular
when he knew that I was speaking to you
he asked me about NAD Plus
that's obviously something that's become
quite popular in the longevity culture
what's your perspective on NAD plus yeah
he's trying to modulate those levels in
his body and there's nice age graphs so
people to enter this into an
understandable frame people uh it's not
commonly understood what a biological
age is versus a chronological age
somebody can be chronologically I'm 45
but I can biologically be different I
could be either 30 or 35 or 55 or 70
according to the markers so in levels of
NAD intracellular NAD in particular
there are certain levels that would Peg
you at age 18 age 30 age 50 because they
reliably go down with age and so when
you supplement to try to change these
you're trying to Peg yourself to a more
useful State because it's a energy the
body runs on and so what I did is I
could people in the longevity Community
do have a lot of questions about how you
increase your intracellular entity
levels and there's a big debate you do
NR or nmn I think there's been this big
debate and everyone's always wants to
fight about it and so I trialed both I
did 90 days on NR I did 90 days on nmn
and I measured my intracellular blood
levels throughout and I showed both were
basically effective in doing the
objective so I was able to Peg my
intercellular entity at the 18 year old
mark on both supplements oh wow so it
basically doesn't matter just get it
measured and just titrate your dose to
make sure you're getting what you need
nice and I want to I really want to make
sure because I feel like you're if I'm
never gonna you know meet someone who I
feel like is so well versed in
how the things I put in my mouth have an
impact on my biological age
um so what advice would you give to me
about say that you could I'm a blank
canvas and I'm gonna I'm gonna believe
everything you say my objective is to
increase my health span and to not age
poorly yeah what would you say about the
things that I put in my mouth give me
some rules
do exactly what I've published okay I'm
gonna make it dead simple for you
I say tongue-in-cheek the blueprint is
the best health protocol
ever developed
prove me wrong with your data
if someone has a better if someone can
achieve better biomarkers with their
protocol it's going to be amazing for me
and everyone else because now we have a
comparison but right now the tricky
thing for someone like yourself is if
you go out into the world and you try to
figure this out you've got to sort
through 100 gurus yeah everyone's saying
a different thing and even now if you
give five anti-aging experts the same
scientific papers and ask them to
develop a protocol for you you'll get a
different protocol from every single one
they're not going to agree there's no
way to go out there and get consensus in
the world so you need to pick a path and
then measure and I've done exactly that
so I've basically tried to punch through
all the noise and say is there actually
something I can do which has some
believability that's what I've done so
I've published all my data and so
blueprint provides people a starter a
starting point to say I'm going to do
something that I can see works I'm going
to measure myself then iterate and
improve upon it so health and wellness
is all like a religion where the King
James version the Bible supports 100
different denominations they all say
their gods one and true only same with
health and wellness everyone claims
they're God's true health and wellness
program and I've tried to punch the
whole thing to say it doesn't matter
what Guru status is share the data
eat in the mornings
uh if you if I was a blank canvas I'd
say trial I'd say follow my protocol
exactly see how you feel and then try
and experiment what you do later in the
day and then compare the two
sugar
zero
zero sugar zero sugar why
it does nothing useful for your body now
like our body needs sugar to run so if
you eat sugar in berries which you're
having now that's great but uh Pros uh
highly processed white sugar cane sugar
there's no value for your body
there's other things of much higher
value for your body
God it's hard to exist in this world
without sugar isn't it
do you do anything with your
testosterone levels yeah I do a
testosterone patch I supplement with a
patch I assist I supplement because a
monocle or restriction diet and when you
do that your testosterone naturally goes
down so I keep my testosterone pegged in
the normal range between six and eight
hundred I'm about 850 right now so it's
I'm not trying to get above it I'm just
trying to be normal
one of the reasons why I said to you
before you when you sat down that men of
my age start thinking about longevity is
we notice that our hairlines have
started to recede yeah I mean getting
the third with a receding hairline is
actually quite good so when my friends
started a little bit earlier and then we
start noticing these gray hairs in our
in our heads you have fantastic hair and
in fact a lot of the comments I saw were
what's he doing with his hair there was
one particular comment I was like
someone asked him this was on online
someone asked him how he's got that hair
what advice would you give to me listen
I'm at that age now where I've got to
make a decision do I let this thing go
back yeah or do I fight it
don't do it yeah fight fight with
everything you've got in you really yeah
trust me on this I will trust me um
you don't want to clean up
of uh you don't want to clean up aging
damage that you can prevent right now
and I can prevent my hell on receding
yes how
I I started losing my hair in my early
30s yeah
and it's been a grind to try to keep it
and so my hair protocol here's what I do
I have a
a custom
formulation that we've built it
basically has monoxidil and a few other
things so people can get that easily I
have a red light therapy cap I wear
every morning for six minutes in my
morning routine
I do uh prf so I inject I get blood
drawn spun up and then re-injected into
my scalp once every maybe a month or
three
and then
I take a few supplements that are listed
online for the blueprint website so
basically like four things
helps prevent hair loss
and incur encourages hair growth
I don't know if I'm going to be able to
do all of that and walk with my dog so
I'm like is there is there like a silver
bullet like that I could so here's how
it works is um
I know it sounds overwhelming
if you build habits that just make these
things you don't think about it it
sounds overwhelming in the beginning but
if you just get into a routine where
every morning you do your thing and when
you're doing that thing you just throw a
cap on your head and it just is on for
six minutes
and then at night before you go to bed
you put a little uh liquid on your scalp
and you rub it in and then you take a
few pills every day with your routine
it's entirely about Building Systems so
you don't think about it ever
so it's never burden on you
my friends are taking different
approaches to keeping their hairline and
the side effects are the reason the
proposed side effects are the reasons
why I've always been scared to do it
one of the clear side effects that
people talk about is loss of libido
I haven't had that so we do the dosage
so if they're taking finasteride
which is an oral uh then it does have
sexual side effects
but we I have not yet
encountered any intervention that has
compromised my libido
anywhere anything we're doing how do you
measure your libido or is that just kind
of anecdotal yeah I mean so I this
historically became known about
measuring nighttime erections so I
didn't know I was talking to a reporter
about this and he had just done an
article on blueprint and he read it and
he came back he's like hey my editors
are asking about penis health and I was
like funny you ask
I gotta tell you something so I just
bought this high frequency
electromagnetic stimulation device
working on basically I sit on this
little thing
it stimulates my pelvic floor and I was
trying to strengthen my bladder so I
wouldn't get to go to bed at night
it had this side effect of every time I
woke up I was erect and I was like this
this is like what happened to me when I
was 10. you know like when you're 10
years old you're always erect um and I
was like I have an experienced that for
quite some time I'm always erect and so
I was telling him about this thing and
then I didn't realize it was going into
the article
and so then it came out I was like oh no
so like this this guy then it's like
this dude is so weird yeah he like
measures his nighttime erections and he
drinks his son's blood and he and it
starts started stacking and people are
like
this guy's nuts yeah and so it just
creates this this pattern where people
are like yeah yeah he's just out there
one of the things that's really
distinctive about you is you have the
best posture of any guest that's ever
sat here ever like to the point where I
was like slumped and I looked at
everything I was like [__] that must be
a reason why he sat like that so I I
corrected my posture but I keep sliding
back down why does that matter to you
posture I wish somebody would have
taught me this when I was a kid it
matters a lot with blood flow I found
out because I have these internal
jugular veins which blood from your
brain brain flows out and I was born
with narrow jugular veins and so when I
have bad posture like this
it stops the blood flow and it builds up
my brain what causes intracranial
pressure which is bad for your brain I
didn't realize I had that until I found
him a normal MRI scan we found that I
had some bad things happening in my
brain like why is that happening and we
found these internal jugular veins so
then it focused me on posture of how do
you how do I actually situate myself to
have the proper flow from my brain down
into my body and it became a whole thing
and so we started doing a bunch of
measurements trying to look at my
intracranial pressure looking at my
white matter hypertensities my brain
like basically how bad is it and it was
bad my team kind of went on red alert
for three months am I gonna have a
stroke am I gonna have a seizure we're
trying to figure this out and so one of
the ways we fixed this or we've made
positive progress where my symptoms have
lessened is this posture so I became
obsessed with posture to avoid having
some catastrophic event with my brain
and it's been useful and helpful and so
I just got into posture and I learned
how to do it but it was really hard I I
never realized how many muscles have to
be strong to have good posture I'd wake
up in the morning I could barely move I
was like oh my God everything hurts did
you think there's a correlation between
our health outcomes and our posture
um
the gentleman I work with on this
thing strongly thinks that there's not
evidence yet but he thinks that
it's a significant influence on it yeah
quick one if you've been listening to
this podcast for some time one of the
recurring messages you've heard over and
over and over again especially when we
first had that conversation with Tim
Spector is about the importance of
Greens in our diet and a while ago I
started pressing my friends at hewell to
come out with a product that did exactly
that allowed you to have all those
greens the vitamins and minerals you
need in a drink and after several
several several months of iterations and
processes they released this product
called fuel Daily Greens which is now
one of my favorite products from heel
because it tastes great and it fills
that very important nutritional Gap that
I had in my diet the problem is
it launched in the US and it sold out
straight away and became a Smash Hit for
fuel for the rare reasons I've described
it's now back in stock in the United
States but it's not here in the UK yet
so if you're a UK listener which I know
a lot of you are it's not yet available
so
let's all attack you let's DM them
everywhere we can and tell them to bring
huel Daily Greens to the UK this is the
product when it is available in the UK
I'm going to let you know first but
until then let's spam their DMS for
those of you that don't know this
podcast is sponsored by Uber company
that I'm a shareholder in and I'm
obsessed with my whoop it's glued to my
wrist 24 7. and for those of you that
don't know it's essentially a
personalized wearable health and fitness
coach that helps me to have the best
possible Health my whip has literally
changed my life whip is doing something
this month which I'd highly suggest
checking out it's a global Community
challenge called The Core 4 challenge
essentially they guide you through a set
of four activities throughout the month
of August that are scientifically proven
to improve your overall health I'm
giving it a go and I can't wait to see
the impact it has on me and I highly
recommend you to join me with that so if
you're not on weep here there is no
better time to start if you're a friend
of mine there's a high probability that
I've already given you a week because
I'm that obsessed with it it is the
thing that I checked when I wake up in
the morning it's the first thing that I
look at I want the information on my
sleep to then plan my day round so if
you haven't joined woop yet head to
join.woop.com CEO to get your free whoop
device and your first month free try it
for free and if you don't like it after
29 days they're going to give you your
money back but I have a suspicion that
you're going to keep it check it out now
and let me know how you get on send me a
DM
it was quite surprising to see that
you've
connected AI to the work that you're
doing the fourth principle you said
about
um
not underestimating the necessity to
align with AI
why why does AI come into this
uh to me it's it's helpful to think
about
these kinds of questions by doing a
thought experiment and time traveling to
the 21st century
imagine whatever whatever form of
intelligence exists in the 21st century
they're observing the early 21st century
what Clarity of insight do they have
looking back at us that we can't see
right now
that helps me spin up certain frames of
mind
and it could be
that there was this revolution in the
human race where we said don't die
and then two is the only thing we have
to do to figure that out is to figure
out cooperation on how not to die
now when you say that you have to figure
out how to get every single agent of
intelligence
on Earth and maybe Beyond to cooperate
cool so far kind of okay thanks for
checking
so so we want the 25th Century AI to
look back and see that one of the
principles of our Humanity was do not
die in the hope that it won't kill us
okay yeah so let me start building this
up so the first take me as a first
example I'm 35 trillion cells
how do I figure out how to not die I go
through this process to build an
algorithm that maximizes existence
we do this between you and me
where we have a cooperation now with not
figuring out how you and I cooperate and
we don't die
we have the same kind of thing with
planet Earth
so for example in my scenario we say can
the organs talk
and can they run me and they can they
keep my Rascal brain at Bay so it
doesn't ruin the show
could the oceans run planet Earth
we plug into the oceans with measurement
and we say you run the biosphere
kind of a weird idea but not outlandish
now you have to basically think about
the Earth speaks our bodies speak we
speak with each other now you have
trillions of artificial uh intelligent
agents
around
all agents of intelligence have to
cooperate
if any one of these agents or any group
of them
violates the cooperation it could be the
end of you or me or the planet or
everyone
we have to figure out coexistence
in this huge tapestry of goal alignment
it's currently framed of AI Engineers
need to figure out how to stop AI from
killing everyone
that's part of the problem
but it's not the entire problem
so that's the only objective you have as
a species like there's nothing else that
matters right now
it's don't die
from every Vector of potential
death and you think by bias doing that
on our level and then at a earth Earthly
level that this will just want to make
sure I'm clear that this will somehow
feed into the artificial intelligence at
all will all will create artificial
intelligence with one of its principles
at its core to be cooperative yeah I
mean so that you take the AI problem and
it's so high level you would say
we don't want AI
to be misaligned with human calls yeah
what are human goals
okay
and then you start breaking yourself
apart me apart and we realize we are a
disaster set of goals yeah we want
everything all the time and always
contradicts we don't have a land goal
and this is what I was trying to align
with myself
can I answer that question and say I
have a singular goal
to exist
now if I'm aligning with AI
and if my singular goal is to get to
zero
self violence right maximum life
existence ability I now have a starting
point to talk to with a talk to AI about
all of us do and if we say Earth
it's maximum sustainability this planet
we're on
we have a starting point for discussion
but it has to begin with existence and
we have to overcome the biggest
psychological barrier in our current
culture which is we perceive inevitable
death
as therefore anything that happens like
whatever we don't care
and so we have to overcome and this is
why I've been playfully challenging the
status and authority of Jesus Christ
I made a joke that that Jesus fed wine
and bread accelerating aging
and uh inebriating and I will feed
nutrients that will nourish and create
life
that
why is Jesus the continued
representation of a philosophical group
of a billion plus people
why can't someone challenge a status an
authority and say no it's not the
resurrection it's not the afterlife it's
this life it's don't die
you're not a martyr for some higher
objective of some rules to be completed
it's this is the boundary conditions
that people create they say this is a
philosophical thing it's sacred you
can't talk about it you can't challenge
it
why not I sat here with um one of the
founders of Mustafa one of the founders
of deepmind and we were trying to find
solutions to this issue of AI and
containment and I want to make sure I'm
clear that you're saying if we change
our goals on a human level from being
less self-destructive and more focused
on do not die in our existence then we
have something that we can align with
Aion which will preserve our existence
as well but we can't align with AI
because currently we're self-destructive
so for an AI to align with us it would
be self-destructive as well exactly and
if you peel back these layers now this
conversation is if you if we actually
got into the technical details it'd be
much more nuanced I'm going to make an
oversimplification of a statement thank
you
humans have this broad set of goals it's
to make money is to acquire powers to
have influence to change the world they
want and that's when you when you talk
about containment you talk about
corporations governments individuals
ideological groups everyone's gunning
for their own thing
and this is why I took myself as example
if I look at me as the same structure of
the world I've got evening Brian morning
Brian ambition Brian entrepreneur Brian
lover Brian
all these different versions of me want
different things at different times and
they're all competing to achieve their
objective and I understand these
different versions of me I had to
basically say hey everybody like we've
got a really big problem we're all
fighting each other after these
different things and Meanwhile we're
accelerating death
and I had to basically say we're gonna
compress the space and we're going to
acknowledge I
as a My Mind cannot Act
in my best interest
and so what I'm really saying in the
most extreme version
I'm saying Humanity if we want to exist
has to contemplate
handing over the reins of control
to algorithms
we cannot act in our best interest
individually
collectively corporations nation states
we can't do it we need new control
systems of power
that acts in our long-term interests
we're playing an existential game right
now with existence
we started playing that in the 60s with
nukes
and we're now playing it with AI we're
playing it with our biosphere
potentially being
an unsustainable place for us the Earth
is gonna be fine not fine for us we're
playing
Russian roulette with our with our
existence so are we lethargic as a as a
species yeah we all think we're gonna
die anyways and this is why if we
flipped it and it's like maybe not and
maybe we're walking into the most
extraordinary existence any form of
intelligence has ever had in the galaxy
we may get our act together and say you
know what let's think through this thing
from these basic principles like real
easy let's not die we don't want to ruin
this chance we have to exist in this
amazing future a rebuttal you must have
had is that in the pursuit of not dying
I don't want to not live
do you see what I'm saying there because
when when I think about the the
sacrifices I would have to make to my
life to not die in the same way that
you've reversed your age I think well
then there's no point because I'm not
going to get to live
and I want you to discrete that as like
a rebuttal how would you respond to
someone that thinks that because I
imagine a lot of people have heard the
the protocol the blue they heard about
the blueprint and they're thinking well
you know and I actually saw it I think I
saw it on Rogan or something where the
guy was saying like
you know I'd rather just die at 90 but
having lived a fun life or whatever
who cares what your mind thinks
why is your mind the unquestioned
authority that gets to to say and do
whatever it wants why does your body not
get a say in this Why can't your heart
speak in your lungs why do you as a
tyrant
Rule and reign with Terror on yourself
this is the thing this is the
unthinkable
most offensive Revolution that could
happen as a species
our entire existence we've assumed our
mind is the ultimate Authority on all
things
even this conversation nothing gets
passed your mind as having an authority
what if our minds what if it didn't
matter what our minds thought
what if they were not the authority what
if there are other authorities there
and why do we even trust your mind to be
the thing that can decide on your best
interest
is that where you are in your life
you've removed the authority from your
mind yes so when you talked about your
being upset and I could see the the
emotion in you when people were
attacking your father is that not giving
you a mind Authority
uh
I don't feel like I have control of
those things there it's an emotional
response
that I based on thoughts yeah based upon
a reaction that I have this this
relationship with my father and so the
it's complicated right in terms of like
the thing I've isolated with blueprint
is
can I take my self-violence to zero
you know there's another layer of like
how do I feel about my father and what
is that relationship different
complexities this whole thing is
incredibly complex but the the simplest
thing to do is can I do this within the
control systems that I have can I take
my life to zero violence and if I can do
it as a 35 trillion cell organization
can we use this little teeny example and
map it to a species and say can we take
this multi-trillion agent intelligent
agent uh computational problem can we
solve this cooperation problem for
everyone can we are you optimistic Brian
and I want the honest answer here
because you know people often have grand
plans but the most important question is
do you think it's possible yes you think
it's possible unquestionably do you
think it will happen I do I do and
here's why I think that
if it were just the human mind
in play right now
I would not
have I would not feel bullish I would be
pretty forlorned I'd probably give up
in
humans are no longer Alpha on this
planet and whether you realize that
whether someone realizes that or not
there's a new Alpha on this planet and
it's artificial intelligence
when we're going back to this
conversation of the biographies
this is inevitable
artificial intelligence will run us
it will run this planet
and it will run
all
forms of cooperation it's inevitable
and we're going to be superseded in our
intelligence
on a time scale that is
surprising to us we think we have
potentially more time than we do I don't
think we do and that's why blueprint to
me is so urgent
is
of the Urgent problems we're looking at
of how do you how do you get Society to
not kill each other with nukes how do
you get
um AI to not kill us how do you get us
to not divide die individually how do
you avoid the Earth's environment uh
biosphere from collapsing and not
supporting our existence here anymore
like how do you stop existential threats
and the thought processes people have
been spinning up is we need legislation
we need new laws we are going to protest
we're going to make a big thing and what
I've tried to say is I'm going to
actually do the thing no one else is
doing I'm going to point itself
I'm going to say Can I
solve all of these problems
Within Me
can I solve climate change within me can
I solve AI alignment within me can I
solve cooperation within me and that's
what I've been trying to do is a n of
one example of how to solve a
complicated system now
blueprint is like an analog version like
it's first version right it's like it's
but philosophically
it's an interesting model
how do you take a complicated system
intelligence like me with all these
different versions was proneness for
self-destruction I mean like if you say
what are the risks of AI like AI uh you
list like all the things AI does that
scare us
that is exactly the same list that I'm
scared of for myself and that you're
doing to the 35 million cells yeah like
I am Ai and I am my own my own worst
risk
like it's just the risk profile is the
same I'm runaway intelligence
doing things that is causing
self-destruction
and that's what AI will do if it's
allowed to run away
so that's the thing it's so funny if we
look at Ai and we and we're scared of it
we just look in the mirror it's the same
thing it's the same risk profile
intelligence is
self-destructive if
uncontrolled or so how do you build
intelligence that's actually sustainable
how do you build so it's not
self-destructive how long do you think
we've gone you said we've got less time
than we think
I don't know why we wouldn't spin on a
dime right now
and look at every existential threat and
go after it
right now like why wait one more day and
why even up why even try to calculate
the absolute last moment we can do
something before everything becomes
catastrophic we don't know the second
and third and fourth order consequences
of the the BIOS that are changing we
don't know when AI is going to emerge
and what level we don't know what
systems are going to do we don't know
like there you can't model it you can't
predict it so creating time frames is
ridiculous
you're emotional about this
I want to exist
I really don't want to die again it's
like it's really fun to exist
and I don't know what death is like but
I've had moments in my life where I get
these small glimpses into this expansive
of consciousness
and it could be the case that we are
Homo erectus that we are we are so
primitive it's just unimaginable and
that if we can step into this future
we could have this expanse of
Consciousness that is mind-bending like
so far
out like so far beyond our imaginations
we just can't even comprehend it
like we could be right there on that
cusp to me it seems like we are like why
why would anything any other imagination
be practical to assume right now if
super intelligence is in the game here
and we're within that that mesh of
intelligence
why couldn't we reasonably imagine that
we might be along the ride in some
capacity are you scared no I don't have
an emotion of feeling scared I don't
experience that emotion ever
fear uh I don't I mean as people
describe it to me I don't really feel it
very logical and analytical in the way
that you see things right
you think differently right and
obviously people that think different
like people like Elon Musk Etc he's he's
neurodivergent in some capacity you've
got a Divergence to your your neurology
if that's even a word
um which is very unique and are you
aware of that
it's uh it's hard for me to see that
I there's our there are moments where I
was at a dinner a few weeks ago
and
people were going around and talking
about stuff and the contrast was like
whoa I'm really different than like
what's happening here so there are these
moments of the sharp contrast
uh but I
I generally view the world as crazy
I view everything else and I'm like this
is nuts what's even happening here
everyone is weird too this makes no
sense what the world is doing and how
people behave it makes no sense to me at
all as I know that if you flip it people
view me in the same way but
God damn the world seems crazy to me
people look at you they think oh he's a
bit weird and you look at them think God
he's a bit weird
I think people I think the world is
crazy
just insane
someone's right
it's either you or the world
time will tell right yeah time will tell
what is the most important thing Brian I
imagine I would guess I reckon five
million people listen to this that's my
estimate
um based on the conversation what is the
most important thing that we haven't
discussed that those five million people
need to know
before we close out um
that now is
our opportunity
to band to get together
and experience the most extraordinary
existence
that we are aware of in the galaxy
and
that this opportunity is going to invite
us
to divorce ourselves
from every
sacred idea we have about ourselves and
Society each other
it's going to
require more sacrifice than
any generation and it's going to be
incredibly painful
and it's going to test our fortitude on
whether or not we choose to exist
the fate of intelligence in this corner
of the universe
may depend upon
us right now
creating this bridge to this next
evolution of Being Human and of the
fabric of intelligence
it is our opportunity to seize
equally to lose if we don't recognize
the moment and step up
and step one in stepping up is
fundamentally
stopping the war against ourselves
it's
it's in
daily acts of revolting
of Revolution against the status quo
which is
harming us and lessening our chances
every day
people are accustomed to seeing
revolutions happen by storming places
and using weapons
the weapons at our disposal are to go to
bed on time
to eat healthy
to not watch porn
to not get addicted to things
and it sounds weird
and weak
and different
but revolting against the culture of
death
and a self-destruction
with self with planet Earth and how we
engage with artificial intelligence
and these foundations map the future of
our existence and it begins with self
it's not blaming someone else it's not
pointing at someone and telling them how
they have to change it's looking itself
and building the revolution within each
one of us
what would you do if you found out you
were going to die next week in a Tamil
illness how would you feel
I would feel satisfied that I spent
my entire adult life
searching for the singular thing I could
try to do to create value for the human
race
and I found it just in time
and articulated the idea is just in time
barely well enough to kick-start this
revolution
are you misunderstood
because the perception of you that I had
before I met you is different subsection
I have a view now specifically the
perception I have of why you're doing
what you're doing because when I heard
the tale of this Brian Johnson guy ego
is trying to be 18 years old he's a
narcissist he's just he was struggling
with the concept of death he's got so
much money now he's fighting life so you
know he's doing this for himself he
probably wants to date someone young and
that's why he's doing what he's doing
it's all sort of self-centered the
proposition you've given me today is
very much more about Humanity than it is
Brian Johnson
it seems like the picture painted of you
and I know how the press works right
yeah it's the things that gets the
clicks right versus the person that sits
in front of me today feel like two
completely different people
I'm not understood I would almost prefer
to be misunderstood
because that assumes some level of
understanding
and
it's not even a close approximation
like you're saying the it's so far off
from what is really what I'm really
trying to achieve
your father 75 years old
he's not gonna live forever
or is he
how'd you contend with that a man you
clearly love a lot but you understand
that the there's an inevitability to lie
for most people who aren't revolting
against life
in the way that you are with your
longevity routines and your anti-aging
protocols
yeah it's um
it's impossibly hard for me to reconcile
you know like
yeah one time he um
I couldn't get a hold of him for a
couple days
and
which is uncommon and
I spiraled in concluding that he had
died
and you know not being able to call him
and hear his voice
uh was beyond devastating
and
death is a terrible thing
we've all experienced it and
it would be wonderful if we could bring
an end to it
are you trying to keep him alive
I am
how
they my both my my parents joke that you
know they get a package it seems like
every single day
I'm sending them everything I can
and you're like do this do that and it
sometimes it's too much whether I Brian
I can only take so many pills a day and
I can only do so many things a day and
it's a fun relationship but I I am
trying very hard to take care of my
parents and my children and my family
I I care deeply about those around me
and I work very very hard for their
well-being
I believe you Brian
I believe your intentions
I think what you're doing comes from a
very very good place
um I
I think you're wide in a way which is
unusual and that's not to pass judgment
on whether we're all unusual in our own
ways right but you're wide in a very in
a way that's unusual but because of your
wiring it's very useful
you know I think that when we think
about tribes and chronotypes and the
differences within tribes it's useful to
have people that think differently
within the tribe because it kind of
covers all of our bases and you present
A New Perspective
um about Humanity about the path forward
and about the way to live and I think
any New Perspective anyone who is
um humble and under you know is
searching for truth would welcome A New
Perspective especially when it's not
harming others right you would want A
New Perspective if you are in the search
of Truth not in the in the search of
confirmation of your existing ideas or
um the alleviation of the cognitive
dissonance we experience and that's what
I when I experience you that's exactly
what I think I'm open I'm open to your
perspective I don't have to accept it
all into my daily life but being open to
listen I think is something we should
expect of ourselves at a very
fundamental level and I would just wish
there was more people that would just
you know
have the fearlessness to present A New
Perspective because as I think we said
earlier in this conversation there's so
much potential trapped behind
the fear of looking weird in life so
we'd stifle opinions and Innovations and
creativity because we don't want to look
weird because there's a cost to that our
society you get smashed right and for
whatever reason you've made the decision
that that matters less than the mission
that you're on
so I I respect you and I commend you for
that am I gonna have the 120 pills
can't make your promise there I'm sure
I'll take a couple of them
um this was nice yeah I can't imagine
putting the chocolate on my broccoli but
you know there's a lot to learn here and
I hope to make this sort of incremental
steps um in some of those areas of my
health that we we can all agree upon
yeah I uh I would thank you for the
conversation today the as hard as I try
to be impervious
to judgment in conversations it's hard
to fully go through the expression of
ideas when the other person even is
making the most subtle of judgments or
setting boundary conditions
and I love talking to you because you
did none you just rolled with me and you
embraced it and I felt uh welcomed to
express all of this I appreciate that
very much really means a lot to me to
the point I just got goosebumps because
um I can't imagine what you've gone
through in interviews with people in
their judgments when I'm actually
getting emotional thinking about it I
can't imagine what you've gone through
in interviews because of people's like
their close-mindedness when they came to
have a conversation with you and how
like what a waste of of conversation and
discourse and progress that is when we
come with a closed mind and so I'm so
happy you felt that way because it
really mattered to me that you did
um and because you did you were able to
share in such a way which I actually
think is incredibly beneficial to me and
I think everyone that's listened so
thank you for that
um that's the one of the best
compliments I've ever received so really
means a lot to me thank you we have a
closing tradition on this podcast where
the last guest leaves a question for the
next guest not knowing who they're going
to leave it for in the Diary of a CEO
the question left for you
huh I mean maybe you've answered this
um is it how many nighttime erections I
have
foreign
what was the cost of you coming and
doing this interview today to your
routine I thought you know I'm going to
sit with him for two hours which we've
done but there's gonna be a cost to your
routine yeah none none because of the
timing yeah okay good appreciate that
yeah we'll get you home before 8 30. for
your curfew
um the question left for you is if all
I think it says if all you could change
is one thing about the world what would
it be
um
I want to exist
a unwavering
unconditional
maniacal want to exist
Brian thank you
really enjoyed this conversation and I'm
sure it'll be the first of many because
I've got a lot to learn so appreciate
your time today
[Music]
foreign